This episode is brought to you by curiosity stream,
a subscription streaming service that offers over 2000 documentaries and
nonfiction titles,
unlimited access starting at just $2 and 99 cents a month and 30 days for
free. If you sign up at curiosity, stream.com/biographics and news code,
biographics more on them in a bit.
You're probably familiar with the musical Avita by Tim rice and Andrew Lloyd
Weber,
which tells the true story of Eva DWA and a relationship with AIAN president,
Juan Perran in the most famous number. Don't cry for me,
Argentina Avita ARA us as the crowds,
after orchestrating an insurrection to free her husband prisoner to a military
hunter, a young Cheva are witnesses,
the events providing some commentary in song form. Of course.
So how much of this famed musical scene is true and how much is just
dramatized dreamers? Well, we'll find out together in today's biographics,
which covers the lives of Avita and Juan Perran to illegitimate children
who rose from obscurity to ultimate power.
Maria, Eva dote later known simply as Eva or Avita was born on may the seventh,
19, 19 in the town of lost tall do in the Argentine pamper or
Farlands.
She was the youngest of five children bought Duana Urgan and Juan Duerte,
Juan Andana were not married. In fact, her father had a second official family.
Bon was a wealthy and successful farm manager with close ties to rich landowners
and the elite members of the conservative party.
After Eva's birth, this party started losing ground to the radicals,
which caused a decline in Hans fortunes. Bud is accustomed to relative.
Wealth had to tighten the belt a few years later,
banter punched some extra holes in the belt altogether.
When Han died in a car accident on the 8th of January, 1926,
quarte had never recognized the children he had with qu meaning they would
receive no inheritance.
This humiliation was compounded by the treatment received at Quan's funeral,
his lawful widow and her wealthy family physically prevented Vita into siblings
from attending the service.
This was a watershed moment in Vita's upbringing.
The knowledge that she was an explicit part of the lower rungs of Argentinian
society ostracized by the rich elite. By the time Eva started first grade,
her other siblings, Juan junior and Lisa were already working as clerks.
While mom Juan spent hours on her sewing machine as a self-employed seamstres
Eva was not yet burdens with these responsibilities and she would spend her
school free hours, climbing trees and exploring the countryside apps.
Most importantly,
she enjoyed dressing up and improvising plays for her friends and her siblings.
Her co-star was second youngest sister Amin.
And that you could count on Juan Jr. As the stage designer in 1930,
the DS moved to the town of Huen.
It was here that Eva's pension for dress up games evolved into a full blown
passion for acting with a rich data films watched at the village cinema and
radio dramas.
She also joined a school drama group and performed for the first time on stage
by 1934, that the age of 15 Eva made her choice.
She would move to Buenos airs and become a actress.
Her mother Juan was not sold on the idea. How could a girl?
So young face the dangers of the big capital, according to some accounts,
it was celebrity tango singer Augustine magaldi who convinced QA to let Eva
follow her dreams in the rice Webber musical.
The much older magaldi is portrayed as Eva's lover and the,
to elope to Buenos airs a less dramatic,
but more likely version of events comes courtesy of Eva's older sister Amin.
It was the headmaster of Eva school who had noticed the girl's talent and
convinced mum wanted her to let the girl press her fortune with acting.
And before you start gossiping, no Eva did not elope with the headmaster.
There was no Elop here. It was Juan who took Ivie to,
to Burno areas and arranged for her to move in with some family friends.
This was the beginning of her adventure.
Argentina in the 1930s was a nation struggling under the weight of poverty,
unemployment, and hunger.
This was the care in much of the rest of the world as well.
Following the financial collapse of 1929,
tens of thousands of Argentines moved from the farms and the countryside into
Buenos airs, looking for better working and living conditions. Year after year,
the social get widened between the upper and middle classes and the desperately
poor. This was the backdrop for Eva's first steps in professional ag,
as she too struggled to make a living amidst fierce competition,
but she clearly had talent, brains and beauty,
which is always a powerful combination.
Eva was soon hard by the compania Argentina deed professional troop,
and she made her debut in March, 1935 in 1937,
Eva turned 18 and her career went from strength to strength.
She first appeared on the silver screen and then on the radio while her roles on
stage and in cinema mainly were bit parts or supporting characters,
it was on the radio where Eva could get her best parts and really progress her
career. And it was radio,
not cinema that made her a household name in Argentina,
a co star in one of her many radio dramas co to diva,
labeling her as professional, dependable and talented.
But Eva also picked up a reputation as well.
Not exactly the nicest person to be around.
It seems that either was generally not liked by many of her colleagues.
It may have been these same colleagues who latest spread rumors that Eva's
career was accelerated by a propensity to sleep with the right people.
It more likely though that these rumors were circulated after she had become
Mrs. Perran in order to undermine the president,
neither him nor Avita would ever lack enemies, whatever the truth,
Eva doer surely did not lack talent as she was routinely signed up for one radio
drama. After the other in 1943,
Eva reached the peak of a popularity as the star of, and I'm not joking here.
A biography show. Yep. That's why I do what I do. Step number one,
host a biography show. Step number two, running a country. Step number three,
musical name after me. Perfect.
Joking aside Eva's show was a collection of dramatizations in which she played
the role of women who had made history like Elizabeth. I first, Catherine,
the great is Adora Duncan and Sarah Burnhart among others.
I wonder if she could imagine that one day her own life story could have been
dramatized in such a show. 1943 was a year of importance, not just Eva,
but all large on June the fourth military coup led by general,
Pedro Ramirez seized power from the president Ramon Castillo within the grief of
conspirators.
There was an ambitious Colonel who was put in charge of the ministry of labor
and welfare. His name was Colonel Juan Perran,
Juan Domingo Perran was born in Los Lobo,
a province of Buen areas on October the eighth, 1895,
like either Juan was born out of wedlock, the child of wealthy farmer,
Mario Tama Perran and Han SOA.
Juan spent most of his childhood in early teenage years in the pamper in the
south of the country. It, his wish to returns the capital to study medicine.
But when he did return to Buenos areas, it was to enter the military academy.
In 1911, he graduated in 1913,
barely 18 with the rank of second lefthand in the infantry.
Bon was amongst the first of his class and he gained a reputation as a
hardworking students. He also excelled in physical training,
standing at six foot tall and being solidly built.
The young athletic Juan became an army champion in boxing, skiing and fencing.
He even almost made it onto the Argentine Olympic fencing team as Argentina
never entered a war during his early military career pong only knew about peace
time deployment.
He progressed through the ranks thanks to his academic endeavors,
as well as the publication of several on military morals and hygiene in 1925.
Juan mess with 17 year old are really AAR. After a four year engagement,
the two married on January the fifth, 1929,
a was a teacher intelligence and academically minded,
a valuable companion for Parran,
a really dedicated much of a time to translating military theory textbooks from
English for a husband in 1939.
The now captain barong was a member of the army staff,
as well as a professor of military history at the higher Institute for war
studies,
he continued publishing textbooks and expanded his field of knowledge into
linguistics with the book on the language of the indigenous people from in and
arounds Patagonia in 1936,
Barran had become a major and was tasked with a delicate assignment. Officially.
He was detached as a military attacher into the Argentian embassy in Chile.
Unofficially.
Juan was actually spying on the Chilean army in search of potential plans for an
invasion of Argentina, which was an event feared to be likely at that time,
Parran was a skilled agent reporting on Chili's military capabilities without
ever blowing his cover.
This success may have earned him his next promotion to left 10 Colonel at the
end of the same year on September the 10th, 1938,
after a prolonged period of illness, a earlier died young at the age of 30,
the diagnosis was cervical cancer. This was a devastating blow to the officer,
a valued asset to Argentina's military Perran state of depression worried his
superiors to the point that they offered him another post abroad to get his mind
off the tragedy from 1939 to the beginning of 1940 Peron was attached to the
Army's European mission of foreign studies. This involved him touring Italy,
Spain, Germany, Hungary,
and France to study and observe those countries militaries.
He spent most of his time in Italy here. Perran focused on mounds in warfare,
but he also had the chance to study closely the policies and authoritarian
methods of Benito Moline while never fully adhering to FAS ideology.
Baron came to appreciate the dictatorial methods in use in Italy and in other
European countries, he started to appreciate the notion of strong,
direct authoritarian rule as the only means to impose effective reforms in his
home country. Koran returned to Argentina in 1941,
having risen to rank of Colonel the country at that time was ruled by president
Haron Castillo whose term had become unpopular due to widespread corruption,
fraud, economic stagnation,
and an increasing divide between the upper and lower classes.
This is when Perran started getting involved in politics.
He joined a secret outfit called G O U Grupo OFS UN
group of United offices,
which had a nationalist agenda in July, 1943.
The Gou seized power in an almost bloodless coup general Arturo
Rosson took power in roughly the amount of time needed to choose the color
scheme for his office.
Curtains Rosson was favorable to the allied cause in world war II and was open
to civilians in his cabinets. But as fellow conspirators,
they disagreed with both ideas.
Rosson was promptly replaced with general Pedro Ramirez whose agenda and methods
were much more closely aligned to the access powers,
firmly anti leftist and totalitarian Ramirez appointed general Farrell as
minister of war who brought along Parran as his personal secretary.
This was not enough for the ambitious Colonel who volunteered for a post that
nobody wanted the minister of the national labor department.
It wasn't just a move to get a seat in the cabinet,
but a calculated first step in a long term plan.
So now just before I continue with today's video,
I do wanna thank curiosity stream for making it possible,
making super long video like this one is only possible because of our fantastic
sponsors.
Curiosity stream is a subscription streaming service that offers over 2000
documentaries and nonfiction titles from some of the world's best filmmakers,
including exclusive originals.
If you're looking for a specific recommendation from me on the platform, well,
I'll check out 101 events that made the 20th century. Now,
if you're enjoying this video, I think that'd be a great fit for you.
Or if you enjoy any of our figures from the 20th century,
it's gonna be a good fit while Sirius it's also pretty chilled.
It comes out of Australia. So there's this Australian guy rating it,
very relaxing. Nice accent does a great job. I've recommended it before.
It just felt that with the figures for today's video,
it's just gonna be a great fit for this video as well.
It's a really good series. So go check it out. Now.
Curiosity stream is available on many platforms, web app, Roku, Android,
Xbox one smart TVs, iOS. It goes on and it's also available worldwide.
So get unlimited access starting at just $2 99 a month. And for our audience,
the first 30 days completely free. If you sign up at curiosity,
stream.com/biographics and use the promo code biographics,
it's all one word lowercase, no quotes during the signup process,
this is a great way to support the show and it keeps us making more videos.
And I really couldn't think of a better fit given that, you know,
our videos are all educational and curiosity stream is all educational.
I think you guys are really like it. So check them out,
link below and let's carry on with today's video
Minister,
Peron delivered an astounding amount of reform in the span of two years,
all of which gained in the support of the, the masses of industrial workers.
For example, he introduced paid holidays for all workers.
He also limited work hours and mandated, better working conditions.
Perran also established a system of government affiliated trade unions to defend
workers rights and always intervened on their side against industry owners.
He did not refrain from using government funds to pay for workers, salaries,
or pensions. When factory owners threatened to suspend payments.
These progressive policies certainly benefited the lower classes which made
Perran increasingly popular. This was his strategy bolster,
the status of workers, the majority of the population,
which would grant him support and even devotion in return.
Perran referred to as supporters as the desk cam SADS or shirtless,
no Argentinian was under the illusion that Perran operated within a democracy.
This was a military authoritarian government,
but unlike previous democratic cabinets Perran delivered on January the 15th,
1944, a national emergency put Perran to the test,
an earthquake completely obliterate the province of San Juan killing 7,000
inhabit and injuring another 12,000 pro organized nationwide campaign to
raise funds to aid the wounded and the displaced for this effort.
He drafted national celebrities to a system,
including popular actors from the stage cinema and radio. Some days later,
Eva set up a meeting with Juan in his office,
during which he asked for more opportunities to raise funds for the earthquake
victims.
It was then that Perran felt an immediate attraction for the young actress.
He later recalls. As I looked at her, I felt that her words were taking over me.
I was almost subjugated by the warmth in her voice and in her eyes.
And just like that, an expert of Kuda Tetra,
a veteran of a Kuta were brought together by a Kuda Fu if you'll pardon my
French, the two initially kept their relationship a secret. Why? Well,
the age difference might have played a part is he was 49 and she was 25.
But well, it was also their business besides their romantic lives.
Their careers went from strength to strength in early 1944.
Peron's patron general Farrell became president and he appointed his protege as
vice president and minister of war. On top of his labor duties.
Eva was no less overworked hosting. Three daily radio shows one on biographies,
one on geography and one on top 10 items. Okay. Not really.
It was actually two radio drama am and a propaganda broadcast in support of the
regime on July the ninth, 1944,
the two lovebirds decided to go public with their relationship.
By showing up together at a gala event,
Peron had become the most popular member of the regime and joined great
visibility with the press and well, so did Vita appearing by his side in public
In March of 1945,
president Farrell opportunistically declared war on the access powers securing a
place in the United nations for Argentina in August.
He decided to soften his regime even promising free elections.
By the end of the year, in the meantime,
Parran had fallen outta favor with the political establishment.
His populist reform had alienated the support of the more traditional elements
of the ruling classes.
The military in the church Avita had also come under attack accused of being
only a power hungry social climber, a little more than a prostitute.
The power couples downward descend was prologue ton's appointment of Avitas
friend as head of the department of posts and Telegraph.
Her Ron was forced to resign on October the 10th, 1945, by the 13th.
He was arrested on the island of Martin GU Garcia years later,
Patran recalls how Avita immediately organized a general labor strike followed
by a massive demonstration of the Des cam Sardos.
She marched at the head of hundreds of thousands of workers occupying Plaza de
Mayo in BU airways,
the square in front of the seat of the government Avita then addressed the
crowds from a balcony Aang Gava was among them.
This was remembered as the foundation day of Peton emo or not.
Koran is the only source to ever circulate this version of the events,
which was later incorporated into the musical. In reality, Avita,
like did not play a role in the uprising at all.
The strike was spontaneous as were the mass demonstrations, the desk cam ADOS.
They rallied in PLA Mayer,
demanding Forand to be released the authorities hoping to prevent bloodshed.
They complied with their demands asking Parran to step onto the balcony,
to calm down the mob and how agave. Well,
he was 17 at the time and he was still at 10 ending secondary school and did not
move to bueno airs until 1947. He never met Avita.
Their only recorded contact is a letter he wrote to her asking if she could buy
him a Jeep <laugh>. As soon as Perran was released from prison,
he did two things. He resigned from the military,
leaving with the rank of general,
and he married Avita in a registry office on the 22nd of October,
followed by a religious ceremony on the 10th of December with Avita by signed
Peron set off to organize his candidature in the new general actions.
He ran as a candidate from the Partido laborist or labor party. His opposition,
the democratic union was a disparate coalition that included both conservatives
and communists with the open backing of us ambassador Braden,
his influence was so extensive that the electoral choice was often presented as
Perran versus Braden.
Juan Avita organized an intense campaign trail with a chartered train called
ESCA asado. This was,
is the first time in the history of Argentina that a presidential Canor was
accompanied by his wife on February the eighth, 1946.
She pioneered another first at a party rally.
She replaced Juan on the speaker's podium as he was too ill to speak,
unfortunately,
and that was a total disaster while workers loved her on thanks to his earlier
reforms, they were still trustful of his wife.
The crowds would not let her speak drowning her out with cries of we want her
on, but little by little if ISA grew in popularity,
her acting talent trained voice and overall good looks helped in no small
measure on June the fourth, 1946,
the couple found their victory on her on had been democratically elected.
The new president of Argentina and Devita had become the first lady at 27 years
of age.
Juan Peron's presidency is not easily defines if not,
as a Labrinth of contradictions,
let's begin with his ideology known as hu or justice.
It was founded on social justice and heavy state intervention in the form of
welfare programs to support the lower classes. But it was also known as Patmore,
an indication that this movement was a unique way of running a country centered
around the cult of Juan Peron's personality and strong leadership.
Juan Peron introduced several progressive reforms mainly to the,
the benefits of his electoral base, the working classes.
He made social security, education and healthcare totally free and universal.
He introduced maternity leave and the right to vote for women with I Vita's key
contribution.
Peron also boosted the Argentine economy by developing hydroelectric power
plants, launching a local iron and steel industry and expanding ship building by
500%. But to achieve all this, he implemented rash authoritarian measures,
including censorship of the press and incarceration of dissenters.
In terms of foreign policy bronze strategy for Argentina was to become a neutral
country along a position aligned with neither capitalism nor communism during
the cold war in practice did not hide his ility towards American and British
presence or influence over Argentina.
Was he secretly considering a drift towards Moscow though? Well, not exactly.
After becoming president Ronan made Argentina a well-know Haven for former
Nazis, a Iman Joseph man, Eric PKA OTO, and many,
many, many other war criminals,
all found refuge there SC even became a bodyguard to the parents and may well
have had a liaison with Avita,
a rumor that was never confirmed all of these Nazi officials except for SC had
been sentenced in absentia at the Nurenberg trials and wanted for crimes against
humanity. Pong was doing more than just accepting them into his country here.
He actively invited them offering money, houses and jobs.
So what was his plan?
Perran had estimated that a new world war would break out by 1949,
fought to by the block SL by the us and the Soviet union.
His end strategy was to bargain for Argentina per anticipation on the Western
side. And that's when the expertise of ex Nazis would've come in handy.
They were trained officers adept at fighting the Soviets
In June, 1947. Avita had a first official trip abroad,
the rainbow tour across Europe and south in Erica.
Her first leg of the tour was in Spain where she met generally SIM Francisco
Franco considered to be one of the last vestiges of fascism in Europe.
This did not help the image of the Parran in subsequent visits to Italy and
Switzerland Avita was accused of being the representative of a fascist country
and was booed or even peed with egg and rotten fruit.
During her official visit to London,
she was snubbed by the king upon returning from Europe,
Avita dedicated herself to the cause of women's suffrage.
She had already supported a bill to that effect in 1946,
and she now wanted things to change. And for them to change fast,
Avita launched an appeal to Artinian women who staged two massive rallies,
September of 1947 and plastered Buenos areas with posters on September the
23rd parliament ratified the bill suffrage was truly universal in Argentina.
If IA counted the achievement two years later by founding the first or female
party in Argentina to ensure that women would be on the ballot,
not just at the ballot,
if IITA understood her feminist victory would not have been possible without the
backing and active participation of her husband in her rising.
She made it clear that in order to bring about progress,
both male and female actions were necessary.
She summarized this is a man of action triumph over everyone else,
a woman of action triumph for everyone else. In other words,
male action was needed to overcome a position when imposing new ideas,
but female action was a constructive energy.
The one to really bring those new ideas to the benefits of others inspired by
these ideals. Avita threw herself into welfare work. And by 1947,
she had become a sort of unofficial minister of labor committing to a grueling
work schedule of up to 22 hours day meeting trade union delegations and
addressing welfare issues.
Examples of her work included organizing state funded holiday camps for workers,
children, building hospitals for textile,
industry employees and distributing age to the poorest families in the country.
And because she had two hours left each day,
Avita put that time to good use to complement her aid efforts.
She created the foundation, Eva Perran focused on helping women, children,
and the elderly.
She collected funds mainly as donations from trade unions and channeled them
into several initiatives, such as the construction of schools and hospitals.
The found continued to finance and develop major works in the field of education
and healthcare. During the early 1950s with Avita supervising,
most of them at this stage, even Parran supporters could not help,
but wonder where the required funds came from officially.
They came from voluntary donations by trade unions,
as well as private enterprises.
There was strong suspicion that donations were enforced by threats,
either donate or face the consequences. Take, for example,
the candy factory called Mumu.
The company was forcibly shut down by the government with all of its employees,
losing their job. Allegedly.
It was because of poor hygienic conditions inside the factory that if it's
direct involvement in a subsequent meeting between factory management and trade
unions led to suspicions that muu was being punished for failing to donate to
the foundation
In 1949, Koran succeeded in having a new constitution ratified by parliament,
this new tax involved,
a new rounds of reform such as universal suffrage and even a declaration of the
rights of the elderly drafted by Avitas foundation.
But the main name of the constitution was to allow for Juan to run for a second
term in future elections,
as was often the case ATO would play a key role by his side this time though,
it would be a more explicit institutionalized one because in August of 1951,
the trade unions formally asked Juan bronze to run again for presidents this
time with Avita as his vice president, despite popular enthusiasm for the IDF,
IITA eventually declined.
This may have been due to pressure from military leadership who always disliked
the first lady. And other reason may have been, I Vita's own poor health.
She had been suffering from fatigue, frequent painting, and vaginal bleeding.
Today.
We know that all these symptoms pointed to a diagnosis of cervical cancer,
the same illness that had killed Peron's first wife,
but the president had decided to hide the truth from Iveta for reasons that are
still unclear.
Perhaps he was to shield her from a devastating diagnosis or perhaps he just
wanted to hide the truth from the public in a cynical electoral move.
Peron did not want to reveal that Avita,
perhaps the biggest source of his presidential popularity may not even be alive
during his second term in office.
Juan Burran won the elections in November of 1951 with a 62% majority Avita
appeared by his side, as he was sworn in. It was one of her last public
Avita. Last month on earth were painful.
The official version of her death on July the 26th,
1952 is that this was caused by late stage cervical cancer.
It may not be a coincidence that Peron's first wife or really had suffered the
same fate. One of the causes of cervical cancer is infection by HPV,
the human papilloma virus.
It is likely that Juan Perran was a carrier of such a virus and thus had
infected both of his wives in 2015.
A new explanation for Avitas demise was put forward by Dr. Daniel Hansen
neurosurgeon at Yale university medical school.
Nisen had obtained scans of Avita skull after a death,
which showed signs of being drilled into this was evidence that the first lady
had received a lobotomy,
an operation that involves cutting the neuro connections between the prefrontal
lobes, the rest of the brain in order to numb emotional responses.
One possibility is that the lobotomy had been a radical measure to manage the
pain of her cancer,
but a more sinister one is that Juan had ordered the lobotomy to curb.
IVIS increasingly unpredictable behavior.
As she succumbed to cancer Avi's actions were becoming more and more extreme in
her last months of life Avita called for violent action against her enemies and
the enemies of the people which she identified as the oligarchs in traditional
Argentinian society.
It appeared that she even ordered from her sick Betty consignment of 5,000
automatic pistols in 1,500 machine guns to arm the trade unions.
She was seriously risking the onset of a civil war. The news.
It would've been enough to tear apart the factions of Juan Barrans allies who
already objected to a Vita's power and popularity. The country.
It really could have descended into conflict. According to Dr. Nisen,
the lobotomy was performed by an American surgeon,
James poppin within the presidential palace Poppin's nurse reported that poppin
had practiced the non convicts that were taken from wearies prisons.
Medically the intervention was at least a partial success as IITA did not die
immediately. It also succeeded in silencing her for good.
The lobotomy put her in a catatonic state and she stops eating her health
deteriorated quickly until her death in July at the age of 33,
8 months after Perran had been and reelected the masses mobilized one last time
for a funeral with thousands of citizens following the procession Avi's body was
placed at the headquarters of the general labor Confederation while a publicly
funded Mo Liam was being built.
Juan Peron ordered that her body be perfectly embalmed.
Her body thus became a sort of Relic to be adored by the masses,
sort of a fitting in end,
considering that the Pope immediately started receiving requests for Avita to
become a Saint
By late 1952 Horan realized that he could not continue his policies of public
spending forever.
The country's finances were sluggish and the economy was stag dating or over the
death of Aveta had Delta heart blow to his popularity exacerbated by rumors that
he had started dating a 14 year old girl Catholic authorities in the military.
They were not happy.
Braun changed his foreign policy in an effort to revive the economy.
Traditionally anti-American.
He made a U-turn and looked for reproachment with Washington,
a move that should have revived Argentina's exports to the us,
but it was only a matter of time before a new conspiracy ended his tenure in
office. This happens on September the 16th, 1955,
a co led by the more traditionalist echelons of the Navy in the air force took
power. After shelling Plaza,
my causing 400 casualties PR was forced into Axel by the new military hunter.
He first moved to Paraguay and five years later landed in Madrid.
By the time he was in Spain had taken a third wife, Maria Ella Martinez,
who was an AIAN dancer that an known as Isabelle in the meantime,
the hun had forbid an all as acts of Peron's policies,
displaying images of Juan Perran and David Vita was also forbidden.
This ban extended to a Vita's body in 1955, it was removed from its Mo Liam.
No one could account for her body for the ensuing 16 years,
some cynical soul once said that the ex you can't compete with is the dead one.
Isabelle Martinez certainly must have felt that way,
that Shean horn let lie of luxury and Madrid.
Former president Perran never stopped looking for Avitas embalmed remains in
1971 out of nowhere came the revelation that Avita had been secretly buried in a
cemetery in Milan under a headstone bearing a different name.
Juan Perran recovered her body had it restored by a mortician and kept it for
some days in his Madrid home. Not just anywhere though,
he had it lying on a table in his living room,
and Isabelle would be asked to brush Avi's hair every day to make sure it didn't
tangle. I'm not gonna comment on this in the video, but feel free to below.
So back to normality in 1973, public pressure in Argentina demanded for,
to resign from his exile,
the presidents in charge general and news complied and invited quant return to
the Homeland. So Juan and Isabelle moved back to Buenos airs on June the 20th,
1973. Leus had also called for general elections to take place in March,
but it made a point that Perran should not be allowed to run.
This was not a problem as he participated and won by proxy,
a revived just east steel party put forward another candidate, Mr. Campo,
who won with a thin majority of 49.59% after taking power camp
immediately resigned, initiating new elections in September,
which of course allowed for,
to participate pretty S slime move Hornan Isabelle Parran campaign together as
president and vice president respectively scoring a 60% victory by the end of
the year, Juan had become president of Argentina for a time with his wife.
A second in command. Isabel had succeeded in gaining the vice presidency,
a post that would've perfectly suited a Vita if it weren't for her illness,
bronze, that, um, was short-lived though,
as he died of a heart attack on July the first 1974,
Isabel succeeded him as president's the first female head of government in the
Western hemisphere. So I really hope you enjoyed today's super long video.
The story of this couple was just really interesting.
So we felt that it deserves some extra time, feel free to, you know, like share,
subscribe, et cetera. And we've just got a final question for you.
Is there any other historical character from a musical show that you'd like us
to cover? Let us know in the comments below also please do check it off.
Fantastic sponsor curiosity, stream link below, and thank you for watching.